Barbara Pierce Bush (born June 8, 1925) is the wife of the 41st President of the United States, George H. W. Bush, and served as First Lady of the United States from 1989 to 1993. She is the mother of the 43rd President, George W. Bush and of the 43rd Governor of Florida, Jeb Bush. Previously she had served as Second Lady of the United States from 1981 to 1989.
Barbara Pierce was born in New York, New York, attended Rye Country Day School from 1931 to 1937, and is an alumna of Ashley Hall School in Charleston, South Carolina. She met George Herbert Walker Bush at age 16, and the two married in 1945, while he was on leave during his deployment as a Naval officer in World War II. They had six children together. The Bush family soon moved to Midland, Texas; as George Bush entered political life, Barbara raised their children.
As wife of the Vice President and then President, Barbara Bush has supported and worked to advance the cause of universal literacy. She founded the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy while First Lady. Since leaving the White House, she has continued to advance this cause.
Life after the White House[edit]
Since leaving the White House, she and her husband reside in the River Oaks community in Houston, Texas and at the Bush Compound in Kennebunkport, Maine. Bush described January 20, 1993, the day of Bill Clinton's inauguration, a "tough day" for her and George. After returning to Houston, the two were visited by their son George W. and at that point Barbara realized she had not cooked in twelve years, and had difficulty driving on her own to the point where she did not drive far from home for a long time and her husband warned people to get out of the way if they saw her car.[15] A month after they left office, in February 1993, Bush was surprised by her husband when he booked them on the "Love Boat" ship Regal Princess.[16] On April 27, 1993, Bush and her husband had breakfast with Margaret Thatcher during her speaking tour. Thatcher mentioned the most recent celebration of former President Ronald Reagan's birthday at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and Museum, where he orated the same card twice. Bush read about the incident after he was diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease, which she called a "tragedy for both" Mr. and Mrs. Reagan.[17] On January 16, 1995, Bush flew to Austin, Texas with her husband to attend her son George W.'s inauguration as Governor of Texas. After attending a church service, the family went to the state capitol for the ceremony. While waiting, the Bushes had visits from former governors and their wives. After dining in the Governor's Mansion, the Bushes and their son Marvin flew back to Houston.[18] Several days after George W. was sworn in, Bush went to a Distinguished Speakers Event at the LBJ Library for Lady Bird Johnson. There, she was introduced by George W. and the following day, received a letter from her son dated January 18, 1995 in which he asserted that he would not be governor had it not been for them. Bush described the letter as having "moved" both her and her husband.[19]
On April 19, 1995, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building was the target of a terrorist bombing that left 168 people dead. One of the people that died in the attack was Al Whicher, who had served on George H. W. Bush's Secret Security Detail. Bush called the man who served under her husband, "a devoted husband and father." The next day, April 20, 1995, the Bushes were scheduled to go to Tulsa, Oklahoma. Barbara was supposed to speak at a Junior League event in the noon and accompany her husband at the Salvation Army annual dinner. The Bushes debated whether or not they should continue with their plans due to the bombing, ultimately deciding to go because "both groups help people in need."[20] On September 3, 1995, the Bushes went to Vietnam. This was "unbelievable" to Barbara because she "never expected to set foot in what had been North Vietnam." The Bushes first went to Hanoi and then to Ho Chi Minh City. The Bushes met with President Le Duc Anh and party secretary Do Muoi.[21] On September 28, 1995, the Bushes drove to Portland, Maine for the announcement of the Barbara Bush Children's Hospital. Bush said her life was being stretched, adding, "Long after I am gone this hospital will be there with my name." The Bushes visited the children there, and Mrs. Bush started to recall her daughter Robin after seeing them. The Bushes returned home early that month.[22]
Several schools have been named for her: three primary schools and two middle schools in Texas and an elementary school in Mesa, Arizona. Also named for her is the Barbara Bush Library in Harris County, Texas[23] and the Barbara Bush Children's Hospital at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine. She serves on the Boards of AmeriCares and the Mayo Clinic, and heads the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy.
On March 18, 2003, two days before the beginning of the 2003 invasion of Iraq, when her son George W. Bush was holding the office of the presidency, ABC's Good Morning America asked her about her family's television viewing habits; she replied:
I watch none. He [former President George H.W. Bush] sits and listens and I read books, because I know perfectly well that, don't take offense, that 90 percent of what I hear on television is supposition, when we're talking about the news. And he's not, not as understanding of my pettiness about that. But why should we hear about body bags and deaths, and how many, what day it's gonna happen, and how many this or that or what do you suppose? Or, I mean, it's not relevant. So, why should I waste my beautiful mind on something like that, and watch him suffer.[24]
George and Barbara Bush attend the christening ceremony for the USS George H.W. Bush, October 2006
While visiting a Houston relief center for people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, Bush told the radio program Marketplace,
Almost everyone I've talked to says, 'We're gonna move to Houston.' What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in Texas... Everybody is so overwhelmed by the hospitality, and so many of the people in the arenas here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this (as she chuckles slightly) is working very well for them.[25][26]
The remarks generated controversy.[27] In 2006, it was revealed that Barbara Bush donated an undisclosed amount of money to the Bush–Clinton Katrina Fund on the condition that the charity do business with an educational software company owned by her son Neil Bush.[28]
Former First Lady Mrs. Barbara Bush at the LBJ Presidential Library in 2012.
On October 3, 2008, Barbara Bush and her husband George opened the George and Barbara Bush Center[29] on the University of New England waterfront Biddeford Campus a few miles north of Walker's Point. The George and Barbara Bush Center lays the foundation for the heritage of Barbara Bush in New England and houses The Bush Legacy Collection, material securing the Bush legacy in Maine, including memorabilia on loan from the George H. W. Bush Presidential Library at Texas A & M University. Particular attention is given to the family’s New England heritage and to Barbara Bush’s love for Maine.
In November 2008 Bush was hospitalized for abdominal pains. On November 25, a dime-sized hole in her small intestine, that was caused by an ulcer, was closed by surgeons. She was released December 2, 2008 and was reported to be doing well.[30]
Bush underwent aortic valve replacement surgery on March 4, 2009; she was released from the hospital on March 13, 2009.[31]
In September 2010, in partnership with the University of New England, Barbara and George Bush established the George and Barbara Bush Distinguished Lecture Series,[32] an annual event honoring the legacy of Barbara and George Bush as political and community leaders.
In a November 2010 interview with Larry King, Bush was asked about former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin. Bush remarked, "I sat next to her once, thought she was beautiful, and I think she's very happy in Alaska, and I hope she'll stay there."[33] Palin responded, "I don't want to, sort of, concede that we have to get used to this kind of thing, because I think the majority of Americans don't want to put up with the blue-bloods – and I say it with all due respect, because I love the Bushes – but, the blue-bloods, who want to pick and choose their winners, instead of allowing competition to pick and choose the winners."[34]
On December 31, 2013, Bush was hospitalized at The Methodist Hospital, in Houston, Texas, for a "respiratory related issue"; she was in stable condition and had received a visit from her family, according to the Bush family's statement to the media.[35] On January 4, 2014, Bush was released from the hospital and it was announced she had been suffering from pneumonia. She was quoted as saying, "I cannot thank the doctors and nurses at Houston Methodist enough for making sure I got the best treatment and got back to George and our dogs as quickly as possible."[36]
Awards[edit]
In 1995, Bush received the Award for Greatest Public Service Benefiting the Disadvantaged, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards.[37] In 1997, she was the recipient of The Miss America Woman of Achievement Award for her work with literacy programs.[38]
Барбара Пирс Буш (англ. Barbara Pierce Bush; (род. 8 июня 1925, Флашинг, Куинс, Нью-Йорк) — жена 41-го президента США Джорджа Буша старшего, мать 43-го президента США Джорджа Буша младшего и 43-го губернатора Флориды Джеба Буша.
Биография[править | править вики-текст]
Родилась в госпитале Booth Memorial в пригороде Нью-Йорка Квинсе, детство провела в пригороде Нью-Йорка. Её отец стал известным издателем женских журналов в 60-х, мать Барбары погибла в 1949 году в автомобильной катастрофе. По линии отца является дальней родственницей 14-го президента США Франклина Пирса.
С будущим мужем Джорджем Бушем познакомилась в шестнадцатилетнем возрасте во время рождественского бала. Через полтора года, перед самым уходом Буша в армию, состоялась помолвка. Во время службы лётчиком морской авиации Джордж Буш называл все самолёты, на которых он летал в честь будущей супруги — «Барбара I», «Барбара II», «Барбара III». Во время очередного отпуска Джорджа Буша, 6 января 1945 года они поженились. После окончания войны они переехали в Мидленд (штат Техас), где у них родилось шестеро детей:
Сын Джордж Буш (6 июля 1946) — 43-й президент США, 46-й губернатор Техаса.
Дочь Паулин Робинсон «Робин» Буш (20 декабря 1949 — 11 октября 1953) — первая дочь Бушей, скончалась от лейкемии.
Сын Джон Эллис «Джеб» Буш (11 февраля 1953) — 43-й губернатор Флориды.
Сын Нейл Маллон Буш (22 января 1955) — техасский бизнесмен.
Сын Марвин Пирс Буш (22 октября 1956) — техасский бизнесмен.
Дочь Дороти Буш Кох (18 августа 1959) — последний ребёнок Бушей, занимается благотворительностью и общественной деятельностью.
В настоящее время Барбара Буш проживает вместе с мужем в Хьюстоне, штат Техас. Возглавляет благотворительный фонд своего имени, занимается развитием образования. В честь Барбары Буш названо несколько школ: 3 начальных и две средних в Техасе, и одна начальная школа в Аризоне. Также в её честь названы больница и медицинский центр в штате Мэн и библиотека в Техасе.
В начале марта 2009 года Барбара Буш перенесла успешную операцию на сердце по протезированию клапана аорты. 1 января 2014 года госпитализирована в больницу в Хьюстоне (штат Техас) с признаками пневмонии на ранней стадии.
Barbara Pierce Bush (Nueva York, Nueva York, 8 de junio de 1925) es la esposa del 41º presidente de los Estados Unidos, George H.W. Bush, y fue Primera Dama de los Estados Unidos de 1989 a 1993.
Biografía[editar]
Nacida en el Booth Memorial Hospital en Flushing, Queens, Nueva York, fue la tercera hija de Pauline Robinson (1896–1949) y Marvin Pierce (1893–1969). Barbara Pierce asistió a la Rye Country Day School entre 1931 y 1937, y fue alumna de la Ashley Hall School en Charleston, Carolina del Sur.
Laura Bush y Barbara Bush en 2012.
Conoció a George Herbert Walker Bush a los 16 años, y ambos se casaron en 1945, mientras Bush estaba con permiso durante su despliegue como oficial naval en la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Tuvieron seis hijos, entre ellos el expresidente George W. Bush, y el exgobernador de Florida, Jeb Bush. La familia Bush pronto se trasladó a Midland, Texas; mientras George Bush iniciaba su carrera política, Barbara crió a sus hijos.

Como esposa del vicepresidente y posteriormente presidente, Barbara Bush ha apoyado y trabajado por la causa de la alfabetización universal; fundó la Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy mientras era primera dama, labor que contnuó tras dejar la Casa Blanca. Actualmente vive con su marido en Houston, Texas, y en el Bush compound, residencia de verano de los Bush en Kennebunkport, Maine.
Premios[editar]
En 1995 recibió el Award for Greatest Public Service Benefiting the Disadvantaged, un premio dado anualmente por Jefferson Awards.1
En 1997 fue la ganadora del The Miss America Woman of Achievement Award por su trabajo en programas de alfabetización.2
Referencias[editar]
↑ Jefferson Awards
↑ «Live presentation of the 77th annual Miss America Pageant». Turner Classic Movies (1997). Consultado el January 7, 2014.
